You know, it's interesting. You were in
San Francisco and Silicon Valley uh
during the last bubble bursting. What
are the signs you're going to be looking
for that San Francisco's in a bubble
again? I mean, the late night is just so
wild. I think people forget. I think it
takes maybe 20 years to forget what
these things look like. It was the
limos, the parties, it was the taxi
drivers offering stock tips. I mean,
like the janitor at one of the startups
my friend worked at like didn't want to
get paid in cash. wanted to get paid in
equity. It was just total total chaos.
You know, that's not where we are right
now. I mean, I think we just forgot what
a true bubble looks like.
Today on Bold Names, we have Martin
Casado. He is a general partner at
venture capital firm Andre Horowitz,
where he is responsible for their
billiondoll infrastructure practice. And
Mims, going into this episode, I think
we had one big question for Martin. Are
we in a new tech bubble? This time
fueled by all of that excitement around
AI and also fueled by debt.
Specifically, the debt these companies
are taking on in order to pay for that
AI infrastructure. It's a huge
multi-billion dollar bet. It's unclear
if it's going to pay off, but for
answers, let's hear from Martin.
Martine, thank you so much for joining
us. Hundreds of billions of dollars are
pouring into artificial intelligence
right now. Help us understand where
that's going. What's where exactly are
is that those dollars flowing? Is it
into programs? Is it product
development? Is it the picks and
shovels? Where are you seeing that money
go?
>> Well, well, certainly there's a mix. The
vast majority is going into actual data
center capacity. Um so this is GPUs,
this is real estate, this is power, this
is HVAC systems to cool them. Then of
course there is the standard you know
software costs of of the teams
themselves and everything else but uh
it's really dominated by the
infrastructure
>> and you your focus is infrastructure. So
at Andre and Horowitz, which obviously
is a tech investment firm,
>> since we go to a broad audience, want to
make sure we specify that.
>> I I run the early stage infrastructure
fund. Yeah.
>> But you got a more than a billion
dollars to invest. And when you say
infrastructure, what do you mean?
>> Yeah. So So it's specifically computer
science infrastructure um and primarily
in the software ecosystem. So that so we
broadly define it as we invest in the
stuff used to build apps. You know, we
invest in the stuff used to build the
stuff. And so this is the traditional uh
verticals within infrastructure are
comput, network storage, databases, but
now you have a number of others like dev
tools, security, um you know AI models
etc. So this is computer science,
infrastructure, everything from let's
say the chips all the way up to to the
actual apps that a that a technical
person would use. Yeah. And for those
who are not familiar with I feel like
even people who think they know what
venture capital is are probably not
familiar with the modern structure of
venture capital. What does it mean to be
a series A? Like what series are we
talking about?
>> So so so we call ourselves venture
investors um because these things you're
right are actually pretty fluid. So we
invest from first money in which would
be called a seed
>> uh all the way to you know pretty late
series B's. Normally we invest often you
know sometimes even pre idea if it's a
second time founder that we know often
pre-product um sometimes pre-market
production sometimes early market
traction and then all the way up to like
say you know the a product is in market
and they're doing pretty well but they
have not seen you know repeatable growth
over six quarters like at some point in
time it moves to growth investing which
is a separate fund and a separate team.
So, we tend to evaluate
technologies, teams, team market fit,
market trends, things like that.
>> I kind of think of it as you you're
you're one of these guys who getting
excited about the people involved or the
wild idea that they might have to change
the world and seeing the potential for
the future of that,
>> right? Without actually, you know,
having the monetary data to prove it.
Yeah.
>> Right. Yeah. So like a late late stated
investors they abstract the entire world
as a financial spreadsheet and that
tells all the truth about the company
where you know we get very excited about
founders we get excited about certain
markets before they show up.
>> I want to talk about some of that
excitement. I noticed on X earlier this
year you posted something that I thought
uh was really insightful. I live in San
Francisco so I'm seeing some of this
too. You're talking about what it's like
to be in the Bay Area right now and you
you're kind of talking about how it
feels like the late 1990s during the
dotcom boom and a quote just Silicon
Valley in peak disruptive glory.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you mean by that peak disruptive
glory?
>> So these um these movements tend to be
much more than just technical movements,
right? So they often are culture
movements and it was the same thing with
the early web. It had kind of a lot of
kind of these wild websites that weren't
really practical, but they were super
cool and people loved them. Like do I
don't know do you remember hamster
dance?
>> Oh yeah, absolutely.
>> A website with hamsters dancing and like
you know often companies kind of get
reconstructed because you have a whole
new set of like the rules are being
written because it's a new technology,
right? So like when the PC came, it was
an entirely new technology wave. So you
didn't have like mainframe people from
IBM starting these companies. You had
you know normally a younger cohort or a
younger generation. They didn't really
know how to build businesses. The buyers
were entirely new and so like you know
there wasn't a playbook for them. So you
kind of remake companies too. You know a
lot of stuff that was you know almost
anthma
you know 5 years ago is is being
recreated again both from the the
company side and the consumer side. And
then of course, you know, you've got,
you know, capital flooding in and all of
the externalities of that. Uh, you've
got entirely new user behaviors that
people don't know what to deal with,
right? I mean, like, I mean, what is AI
good at? It's good at like creating new
things. Like, computers haven't been
creative. It's great at creating
emotional connections with humans. Like,
computers haven't been good at that. Um
and so it's just kind of this meu of you
know tech and culture and company
building and init and again yet again
uh Silicon Valley is at the epicenter of
it you know just like it was for the
internet.
>> Absolutely. And I think but I when you
use the the the dot boom I think a lot
of people think of the dot bubble
>> and so I think
>> you're seeing the good parts of that the
good comparisons of that era the the and
it sounds like what you're just telling
me all the the potential all of that
kind of wave of new ideas and how it can
be implemented.
Are you have any confidence that history
isn't repeating itself with the bubble
part of that uh boom? So all markets go
in waves, right? I mean, we just saw
this with COVID, right? I mean, there
was a you know, there was a I'd call it
a speculative wave where uh equity
values went super high and then, you
know, it it it dropped dramatically
after that. And so that will always
happen and I I predict this will happen
um again at some point in time. That
said, I don't think that the
fundamentals are anything like
there's a number of things that were
very different, right? So, the first one
was
most of the infrastructure was being
provided by WorldCom, right?
>> Yeah. A lot of a lot of debt, right?
>> Which had $40 billion in debt.
>> Yeah.
>> We also had 9/11 which happened in 2001.
And so and and
um
back then there's a lot of users on the
internet. There weren't a lot of people
that were paying for it. We hadn't even
really figured out a business model. So
if you compare that today kind of every
one of those is different, right? So the
companies that are investing in these
data centers have hundreds of billions
of dollars on the balance sheet. Like I
I don't know the answer to what I'm
about to say, but what do you think? Do
you think Meta is spending more money on
VR or AI? M probably has been VR, but
now with the AI and the checks they've
been writing, I mean, Zuck has talked
about spending maybe $600 billion by
2028.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it is. It's a ton of money,
right? But like these companies spend
lots of money on infrastructure
historically and so like maybe they're
inflating it, but these companies have,
you know, great balance sheets, great
cash flow, and so like the fundamentals
of like who's funding this is is quite
different.
>> I want to get in the fundamentals in a
second. You know, the the the thing
though, put your investor hat on because
I think there's some confusing signals
out there, right? Because on one hand,
>> uh Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Meta, uh
OpenAI CEO Sam Alman,
>> uh and they they've all talked about the
excitement, but they've also had kind of
their own version of suggesting some of
this excitement might be premature. I do
think that there's definitely a
possibility at least empirically based
on past large infrastructure buildouts
and how they led to bubbles that um that
something like that would happen here.
So on one hand you have some some
warnings, the other side you have a lot
of money going out there. What should
people make of these conflicting signals
and noise sorts of situations?
You know, listen, I I think it's very
important to be sober um about, you
know, how um how long it takes for
technology to be adopted. Um and I think
everybody, especially leaders of
companies, try and temper it because
otherwise, you know, expectations
will outpace actual adoption. Um, but I
would say that articulating expectations
for humans is very different than
actual operational planning where you've
got to be, you know, three to five years
ahead because it takes so long to build
these out. And so I I wouldn't conflate
a CEO
trying to set expectations for a market
versus an operational plan, which is
what they've been in the business for
for the last two decades. There there
are two major concerns driving the
conversation around a possible bubble,
right? One, that AI is not
transformative as we'd hoped. The other
is that all this money is pouring into
its future, these data centers and
energy and chips, and it's it can't
possibly lead to enough productive gains
to justify that level of spending. And
I, you know, I want to set aside the
kind of the question of whether the
technology is is is is developing at the
at the progress at the levels that we've
seen and just go straight to that money
point because I think for
a few years now, one of the proof points
behind why the AI spending spree wasn't
uh the dotcom bubble was because
companies weren't relying on huge
amounts of debt to build out that
infrastructure. But as of late, um we've
seen that debt, right? We've seen some
of that debt starting to show some some
uh flashing red lights, right? And I
think of some of the numbers that my
colleagues at the at the journal have
talked about where they see open AI
talking about a trillion dollars for
data centers. Consultants at Bane have
estimated that the current wave of AI
infrastructure spending would require
two trillion in annual AI revenue by
2030 to justify that. So that seems like
a lot of red flags there or flashing red
lights.
Why are we not in a bubble?
>> Well, I just think we need to define
bubble here.
>> Mhm.
>> So, like what you're what you're saying
is there may be a systemic collapse,
which is a very different statement than
saying we're in a speculative valuation
bubble. So, like often when we talk
about bubbles, it's a speculative
statement like, oh, we're overvaluing a
set of um stocks for whatever reason,
right? And we see these all the time. So
I would say listen um if you look at at
valuations of companies as I mentioned
before they wax they wayne they may be
overvalued
um over a period of time right now it
tends to be in the long terms these
things get pretty well justified so for
example if you look at the valuations
for dotcom even though they were totally
crazy if you look at you know it was
like the primary growth driver of the
economy for the next 20 years they're
actually pretty well justified Yeah, I
mean it seems like
you know you talk about how AI is the
biggest innovation since the internet
but it took a little bit of time for
that the ROI to be there right you know
clearly Amazon
>> yeah but I want to actually talk to this
this this notion of systemic collapse
right so the com was the dot collapse
was really kind of a fibergl
mentioned before you you had one company
that managed demand it was that one
company was massively levered and it was
cooking the books and you at 911. So you
know all of these things happen and yet
even in that when fiber went down it
created a systemic issue in the
financial system. Even then
the glut only lasted about four years.
Listen the question is not are we
overinvesting
um relative to near-term demand?
Probably. The question is are we
overinvesting relative to long-term
demand?
And if so, do we have the economic
reserves to stop some sort of, you know,
systemic unraveling? The fundamentals
are so different and so much better this
time than they were during the late '9s.
It's very hard for me to see how just
because you could have a speculative
bubble, absolutely this somehow denotes
that we're going to have a systemic
issue. Remember, we overvalued things
in, you know, mobile. We overvalued
things during the early cloud boom. We
overvalued things during the early SAS
boom. All of these things we overvalued.
That did not result in systemic
collapse. And so I think we need to
really tease these two things apart.
It's like, yeah,
>> yes, like valuations often get the
timing wrong. They wax and they went,
>> you know, but you're asking
specifically, does this mean there's
going to be a systemic collapse? I see
absolutely zero indication of that. And
I think I can back into that conclusion
via, you know, both historical
precedents on the use of bandwidth and
data plus the the the fundamentals of
the industry that's funding these
things.
>> Let me just interject on the systemic
collapse uh bit.
>> So uh you know one of my favorite
columnists happens to be at Bloomberg.
Shout out to our colleagues competitors
there Connor. He says, you know, every
every time is different.
People like to say every time is
different, but that's true. Every time
that we have a a bubble or a systemic
collapse, it is different. So, here's
some things that I think are relevant
that are different now, right?
>> Yeah.
>> We've never had the level of
concentration uh in the stock market in
terms of the proportion of the value of
the stock market represented by the top
five or so companies that we have now,
all of which are tech companies. So, you
know, the stakes are higher, right? like
there's lots of cash on the side, but
people are also pouring cash into the
market as a whole. The current level of
investment implies just with a basic
back of the envelope calculation that
the total amount of revenue generated by
let's say AI in all of its
manifestations at all these companies
needs to increase something like 40x in
the next four years to justify the
current level of investment. Isn't it
possible that that gap is so large that
we could have a significant dip in
markets and and and investment in this
infrastructure uh in a way that people
look back on and say, "Oops, that really
was a mistake.
It's totally possible." Um there's
there's an interesting thing in the way
that you phrase it that I thought was
absolutely correct and I think it's
worth calling out. So the companies that
are implementing a lot of this AI spend
have existing businesses right and the
AI portion has to grow 40x which is a
lot but it is actually not a lot
relative to their businesses and if you
look at their existing businesses you'll
actually see this is the largest shift
in budget we have ever seen right it's
going from basically one side to the
other side so I would I would I would
agree that you need the AI portion to
grow but what I would disagree is you
need those companies to grow and this So
often confused when people talk about
these numbers. I mean you have companies
that their entire job like Meta is like
okay we launch new technologies and new
things and then we shift spend budget
user behavior onto those things. And so
again let's not confuse something like
the internet which was kind of like a
net new behavior net new spend net new
companies drove basically all of it with
existing companies that are shifting
spend from one column to another column
which is actually what we're seeing. So
you're you're an optimist, right? You
I've heard you say that, you know,
especially now is not a time for for
zero sum thinking. Um you know,
>> the market's clearly growing. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. The market's clearly
growing. It's always I mean, listen,
it's not optimistic. I mean, the
realistic view of tech in the last 30
years is that it keeps growing.
>> True, true, true.
>> Um although not every idea pans out,
right? Not every second. This one is
clearly already generating a lot of
revenue as you said.
>> Yeah. Um,
>> that said, on your investments, when do
you expect to see real ROI on the things
that you've been investing in over the
past couple of years?
>> You know, it's a very, this is such an
interesting question, probably for a
different reason than you're intending,
which is um, a lot of the best companies
don't go public.
>> Ah,
>> right.
>> Which is kind of a new thing, by the
way. Right.
>> It is a super it's a definitely a new
thing. I mean, and and so I
>> and that's because and and I just slow
down there. That's because there's so
much capital out there that they can use
that money to grow without going to the
public markets.
>> Exactly. It's a very like the like many
of the best companies don't go public.
And so I actually think there's a very
interesting discussion to have on
exactly this question, but I think it's
orthogonal to AI. Um meaning I think
that's kind of the like the the dominant
trend there. I mean these AI companies
many of them have like you know they're
profitable they're at scale and so that
they could but there's a bigger question
of well if there's enough money in the
private markets why would we you know
it's just a lot of overhead that I don't
need and I can actually be more
aggressive as a company without doing
that and so I I think you know from my
vantage point that kind of shift
um is something we're also trying to
understand like LPs are trying to
understand that we're all trying to
understand what that that means
>> cuz how do you make your money because
either traditionally it's been through
going public or getting acquired by a
bigger company that that has been
usually the path.
>> Yeah, that's right. Well, but but it's
also interesting because actually the
answer is very simple which is well we
can just sell it to somebody else later
stage and we can cash out. But if it's
the best companies that are doing that,
why would you ever sell it? Because
they're growing very nicely. And so it
just all I will say is like like it
doesn't pose a problem with liquidity.
It just changes how you think about this
in a way that I don't think we've
institutionally had to think about it.
Like you know you you end up with these
kind of captive markets you know that
you have exposure to that are growing
really well. And so like should you sell
those? Should you not sell those? What
are the expectations of our investors?
Um, and I don't have good answers for
you now, but I will say this is I would
say every VC is having exactly this
discussion to try and understand like
what is the right posture.
>> Where do you see the biggest
opportunities for investors like
yourself in AI? I mean without giving it
away to your friendmies at Sequoia or
whatever.
>> Oh no.
>> Who are big listeners of this podcast I
have no doubt. Sequoa is great. Um,
every time you have a new capability and
a new behavior, you get new companies
and that's what's exciting. Like a lot
of times it's like you've got this tech
but like the technology isn't disruptive
enough or it isn't a new behavior and so
it's very very hard for to get like new
iconic companies. I mean that's actually
been the story of AI previously like
like before this wave AI has been a
thing since the 60s, right? And I mean,
I took my first AI course in 1999. So
then where are all the AI companies?
We've had 30 years of this. Like where
are they? Why hasn't there been any AI
companies? And the answer is cuz the
economics have been terrible. It's like
they give you a 20% gain and the product
kind of sucks and it's been okay. And so
it's been a technology that like large
companies can use to get 20% better. I
can, you know, I know your preference
20% better. I can detect fraud 20%
better. Like that's been the story of AI
uh until this generative wave. The
generative wave is like this is a
totally new behavior and it's a thousand
times better than the traditional wave.
And when you have those disruptions
then you end up in um uh you know in in
in in these super cycles where you have
new generational companies. So I would
say generally this is very exciting
because you're going to definitely have
new companies that rise up like the open
AI or the anthropics or the cursors or
whatever it is that are clearly going to
be new and then and then when you like
as like particular markets we kind of
break the world into two pieces. There's
like there's the state-of-the-art large
language models like the open AIs and
you know in our view those require
tremendous amount of capital but then
there's all of these other companies
that people don't talk as much about the
ones that do like image diffusion or
video diffusion or speech or music or or
whatever. These are all generative AI
the companies are great and so we invest
heavily in those too and so we invest
broadly like you do in any cycle. We're
very excited about the fact they're
gonna have new companies, but we do kind
of segment the market based on I think
like a lot of the time like I think even
when you ask questions you're like in
your head you're thinking open AI like
that's your model but I will tell you
that's not what the landscape looks
like. That's one company and the
state-of-the-art models is a very small
subset of the long tale of of AI
companies. So we're very interested in
the long tale in addition to of course
like the you know the open AIs etc. you
feel like we're at a tipping point for
AI that the economics are you can see
the economics are coming that this is
real businesses here on the horizon.
>> I mean yeah for sure 100%. I mean but
we've seen that this isn't even like um
for some use cases of AI I I just don't
think this is a controversial take like
the the economics are great for a number
of use cases. Um now listen I think we I
think we just tend to think pretty muddy
about a lot of these things. So for
example the statement that
um
there's no long-term defensibility is
very different than can you build a a
profitable
company and the answer is we can
definitely build profitable companies we
have those that have great growth like
those exist today and there's a number
of examples of those then people say
well are they long-term defensible maybe
>> right
>> but I will say like you know traditional
defensibility does pertain to to these
companies so if you can build a
two-sided marketplace or long-term integ
ation or whatever is you can get
defensibility. And so I just feel like a
lot of the times we kind of move the
goalpost on on simple questions but I we
can be very very clear that yes you can
build a company today that is AI based
that is profitable that grows at levels
that we view is incredibly healthy.
>> So what story do you think we'll be
telling about today's AI boom 20 years
from now?
>> Do you remember what the first video for
the web was? Hm.
>> Like the subject of the first video for
the web.
>> The first the first the first video on
>> You got me.
>> The first video was a coffee pot
>> and um
>> Oh, the live webcam of the coffee pot. I
do remember this
>> Cambridge University coffee machine
gained international stardom with more
than 150,000 people around the world
avidly watching it. And the reason, you
know, someone put it up was a
researcher, I think in Cambridge, and
he's like, I want to see if the coffee
uh pot has coffee in it before I like go
down uh to like waste my time to go get
some coffee.
>> All I have to do is to click on uh a
little button that says coffee machine
like this and eventually I get a picture
on my workstation.
>> And it was like this total sensation.
And so if you if you look back,
you know, in the mid 90s, you had these
things that just looked like toys and
they were so silly and you made fun of
them. But the reality is is that video
of a coffee pot in no small way became
Netflix and people could see that,
>> right? People could see it. And so there
was, you know, like like we kind of like
would make fun of all of the excitement
about what seemed like trivial things,
but it all turned out to be true in the
long run. And I think that that will be
the story of this realm, which is we see
a lot of like anime and a lot of silly
use cases and then we tend to poo poo
this as like, oh, this isn't serious
stuff and where are the enterprise use
cases and blah blah blah, but like this
is what the future always looks like.
>> Well, Martine, thank you for coming on.
It was such a pleasure. I appreciate it.
[Music]